Introduce the new convention for multi-fields text indexing to the README. (#140)
elastic/ecs: README.md

### Multi-fields text indexing

Elasticsearch can index text multiple ways:

* [text](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html)
  indexing allows for full text search, or searching arbitrary words that
  are part of the field.
* [keyword](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/keyword.html)
  indexing allows for much faster
  [exact match filtering](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-term-query.html),
  [prefix search](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-prefix-query.html),
  and allows for [aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations.html)
  (what Kibana visualizations are built on).

> By default, unless your index mapping or index template specifies otherwise

Reviewer: Instead of writing this here, could we link to the ECS docs? We should if possible not explain how Elasticsearch works in ECS.

ElasticSearch can index text multiple ways:

* [text](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html)
  indexing allows for full text search, or searching arbitrary words that
  are part of the field.
* [keyword](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/keyword.html)
  indexing allows for much faster
  [exact match filtering](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-term-query.html),
  [prefix search](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-prefix-query.html),
  and allows for [aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-aggregations.html)
  (what Kibana visualizations are built on).

> By default, unless your index mapping specifies otherwise, ElasticSearch indexes

Reviewer: `Elasticsearch`

> text field as `text` at the canonical field name, and indexes as second time

Reviewer: Note here: The ECS templates has keyword as default specified: https://github.com/elastic/ecs/blob/master/template.json#L13

Author: Yes. In our case, the index template *does* specify otherwise. Perhaps I should indeed reword this a bit, to avoid confusion.

I was referring to the broader use case when Elasticsearch, not while using the ECS index template.

as `keyword` in a nested field:

* Canonical field: `myfield` is `text`

> * Nested field: `myfield.keyword` is `keyword`

Reviewer: Lets not used  `nested field` here normally people think of nested datatype in Eleasticsearch: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/nested.html

Author: Ok I can see how that can cause confusion. Looking at the documentation for [multi-fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/multi-fields.html), there is no specific wording to reference that other field.

Do you have a suggestion on what we should call that nested field?

A "multi-field" sounds to me like it refers to all the fields pointing at the same data, not specifically the nested field.

Reviewer: Instead of canonical fields, I would use core data types (coming from the es docs) and use multi fields here. Something like `the field inside the multi field`?

> For monitoring use cases, we need almost exclusively `keyword` indexing, with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For monitoring use cases, almost exclusively `keyword` indexing is needed, with
```

full text search on very few field fields. Given this premise, ECS defaults

> all text indexing to `keyword` at the top level (with only two exceptions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all text indexing to `keyword` at the top level (with only few exceptions).
```

I don't like the docs to become outdated just because we add or remove one.

Any use case that requires full text search indexing on additional fields

> can simply add a nested field for full text search.

Reviewer: It is a multi field not a nested field. Best also link here to the multi field docs.

Doing so does not conflict with ECS, as the canonical field name will remain
`keyword` indexed.

ECS multi-field convention for text:

* Canonical field: `myfield` is `keyword`
* Nested field: `myfield.text` is `text`

> #### Exceptions

Reviewer: I don't think we need to document this.

Author: Good catch, forgot to drop that old text.

Author: Sorry, misread that. I thought we still had a reference to `.raw` fields.

I think it's worthwhile to document the break from this new convention. These are widely used fields and they will behave exactly the reverse of this new convention we're introducing. I think it's helpful to make sure it's clear.

Or alternately, I would make them follow this new convention, but declare them right away as a multi-field. E.g. `message` is `keyword` and `message.text` is `text`. This would avoid the uncomfortable explanation of explaining two exceptions, and would let people do fast exact match filtering based on the `message` field without having to reintroduce `message.keyword` ;-)

Reviewer: As mentioned before, these are not exceptions for me.

The only two exceptions to this convention are fields `message` and `error.message`,
which are indexed for full text search only, with no nested field.

> These two fields don't follow the new convention because they are deemed too big

Reviewer: I think the purpose of `message` is to be index so even if we would not have it as text today I think it should be text.

Author: Not sure what you mean by this. `message` is indexed as `text` right now.

Are you mixing this up with my comment here https://github.com/elastic/ecs/pull/138#pullrequestreview-166647391 😄 ?

of a breaking change with these two widely used fields in Beats.

> Any future field that will be indexed for full text search in ECS will however

Reviewer: Let's really skip the Exception part here as I think we need to discuss when we encounter other fields with text purpose what we should do with it and not get ahead of us in the docs here.
